## helm dependency

Manage a chart's dependencies

### Synopsis


Manage the dependencies of a chart.

Helm charts store their dependencies in 'charts/'. For chart developers, it is
often easier to manage a single dependency file ('requirements.yaml')
which declares all dependencies.

The dependency commands operate on that file, making it easy to synchronize
between the desired dependencies and the actual dependencies stored in the
'charts/' directory.

A 'requirements.yaml' file is a YAML file in which developers can declare chart
dependencies, along with the location of the chart and the desired version.
For example, this requirements file declares two dependencies:

    # requirements.yaml
    dependencies:
    - name: nginx
      version: "1.2.3"
      repository: "https://example.com/charts"
    - name: memcached
      version: "3.2.1"
      repository: "https://another.example.com/charts"

The 'name' should be the name of a chart, where that name must match the name
in that chart's 'Chart.yaml' file.

The 'version' field should contain a semantic version or version range.

The 'repository' URL should point to a Chart Repository. Helm expects that by
appending '/index.yaml' to the URL, it should be able to retrieve the chart
repository's index. Note: 'repository' can be an alias. The alias must start
with 'alias:' or '@'.

Starting from 2.2.0, repository can be defined as the path to the directory of
the dependency charts stored locally. The path should start with a prefix of
"file://". For example,

    # requirements.yaml
    dependencies:
    - name: nginx
      version: "1.2.3"
      repository: "file://../dependency_chart/nginx"

If the dependency chart is retrieved locally, it is not required to have the
repository added to helm by "helm repo add". Version matching is also supported
for this case.

A repository can be defined as a git URL. The path must start with a prefix of
"git:" followed by a valid git repository URL.

# requirements.yaml
dependencies:
- name: nginx
	version: "master"
	repository: "git:https://github.com/helm/helm-chart.git"

The 'repository' can be the https or ssh URL that you would use to clone a git
repo or add as a git remote, prefixed with 'git:'.
For example 'git:git@github.com:helm/helm-chart.git' or
'git:https://github.com/helm/helm-chart.git'

When using a 'git:' repository, the 'version' must be a valid tag or branch
name for the git repo. For example 'master'.

Limitations when working with git repositories:
* Helm will use the 'git' executable on your system to retreive information
about the repo. The 'git' command must be properly configured and available
on the PATH.
* When specifying a private repo, if git tries to query the user for
username/passowrd for an HTTPS url, or for a certificate password for an SSH
url, it may cause Helm to hang. Input is not forwarded to the child git
process, so it will not be able to receive user input. For private repos
it is recommended to use an SSH git url, and have your git client configured
with an SSH cert that does not require a password.
* The helm chart and 'Chart.yaml' must be in the root of the git repo.
The chart cannot be loaded from a subdirectory.


### Options

```
  -h, --help   help for dependency
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --debug                           Enable verbose output
      --home string                     Location of your Helm config. Overrides $HELM_HOME (default "~/.helm")
      --host string                     Address of Tiller. Overrides $HELM_HOST
      --kube-context string             Name of the kubeconfig context to use
      --kubeconfig string               Absolute path of the kubeconfig file to be used
      --tiller-connection-timeout int   The duration (in seconds) Helm will wait to establish a connection to Tiller (default 300)
      --tiller-namespace string         Namespace of Tiller (default "kube-system")
```

### SEE ALSO

* [helm](helm.md)	 - The Helm package manager for Kubernetes.
* [helm dependency build](helm_dependency_build.md)	 - Rebuild the charts/ directory based on the requirements.lock file
* [helm dependency list](helm_dependency_list.md)	 - List the dependencies for the given chart
* [helm dependency update](helm_dependency_update.md)	 - Update charts/ based on the contents of requirements.yaml

###### Auto generated by spf13/cobra on 21-Oct-2019
